<p class="recon-summary">This extension comes with an experimental version of faceted search for Semantic MediaWiki. It is a customisable tool that uses fixed filters to let users narrow down search results. You can enable it using a parser function <code>#recon-faceted-search</code>, which takes most of its instructions from a user-provided configuration profile in JSON. For any API-based facet, it relies on reconciliation profiles whose page IDs only need to be referenced in a faceted search profile.</p>

== Parser function <code>#recon-faceted-search</code> ==
To add faceted search to a wiki page, add an instance of the <code>#recon-faceted-search</code> parser function : 

<pre>
{{#recon-faceted-search:
|profile= // Mandatory
|output= / ask, template or basic
|resultformats= // only if output=template

// if output=ask
|format= // result format
|template=
|limit=
|sort=
|order=
|valuesep=
// and other #ask-specific parameters

|defaultfilters=
|maxpages=
|scrollmargintop=
|updateurl=
|runonload=
|debug=
}}
</pre>

<div class="recon-data-item">
<div><code>profile</code></div>
<div>Pagename of your config profile (mandatory).</div>
</div>

<div class="recon-data-item">
<div><code>output</code></div>
<div>What output method to use for your query results. You can decide between three options :
* (1) 'ask' (default) - create an <code>#ask</code> query and have that parsed.
* (2) 'template' - leave it up to a wiki template to run queries and visualise data. The template just receives the query condition along with other dynamic data such as 'offset' and 'sort'. More advanced but also more flexible and useful, for instance, if you want to pair two different visualisations.
* (3) 'basic' - a minimal presentation will be used instead.</div>
</div>
<div class="recon-data-item">
<div><code>resultformats</code></div>
<div>Used exclusively with output=template to establish which ResourceLoader modules must be loaded. See relevant section below.</div>
</div>
<div class="recon-data-item">
<div><code>template</code></div>
<div>If output=ask, the wiki template to be used to format query results; if output=template, the wiki template to be used for handling the query.</div>
</div>
<div class="recon-data-item">
<div><code>valuesep</code></div>
<div>The delimiter for property values in an #ask query. Default: <code>;</code></div>
</div>
<div class="recon-data-item">
<div><code>sort</code></div>
<div>Optionally, the property by which to sort the #ask query. SMW's default is to sort by page sortkey or pagename.
</div>
</div>
<div class="recon-data-item">
<div><code>order</code></div>
<div>asc/ascending (SMW's default) or desc/descending</div>
</div>
<div class="recon-data-item">
<div><code>limit</code></div>
<div>(default: 10) - maximum number of results to show at a time.</div>
</div>
<div class="recon-data-item">
<div>...</div>
<div>With output=ask, you can use any other <code>#ask</code> parameter.</div>
</div>
<div class="recon-data-item">
<div><code>defaultfilters</code></div>
<div>Optionally, a list of preset filters to be used when the page loads. The list separator is three consecutive hyphens (<code>---</code>) and each filter should be given in the format <code><nowiki><name here>=value</nowiki></code>, where the first part corresponds to the <code>name</code> of the facet. To list multiple values for the multiselect input, use the value of <code>valuesep</code> as your separator. For example: <pre>defaultfilters=term=cocktail --- ingredients=maraschino cherry;pineapple juice</pre></div>
</div>
<div class="recon-data-item">
<div><code>maxpages</code></div>
<div>(default: 5) - maximum number of pages to show in the pagination widget, with the possible exception of a first and last number.</div>
</div>
<div class="recon-data-item">
<div><code>scrollmargintop</code></div>
<div>When you use the pagination widget at the bottom of your search results, the page will automatically scroll up to the top. If your site happens to use a fixed header, the unfortunate side-effect is that the very top of the widget will then be buried under the header. To remedy this, set 'scrollmargintop' to the height of your header, including a unit such as 'px' or 'em'.</div>
</div>
<div class="recon-data-item">
<div><code>updateurl</code></div>
<div>By default, the URL remains clean and untouched whenever a new query is run. You can also enable faceted navigation or bookmarking for reference and sharing. Filter values will be pre-loaded when a user later visits a URL that's been enriched with filters. To enable it, set <code>updateurl</code> to one of the following values:
* 'search' - adds the filter parameters to the query part of the URL, after the question mark (<code>?</code>).
* 'fragment' - adds the filter parameters to the URI fragment, after the hash (<code>#</code>). Consider this option if you think that on your wiki, the traditional query option ('search') is prone to abuse by crawlers. For additional guidance on this topic, [https://developers.google.com/crawling/docs/faceted-navigation#prevent-crawling-of-faceted-navigation-urls see these recommendations by Google].
Because there is only one URL at a time, you should not enable this feature for more than a single instance of the parser function on the page.
</div>
</div>
<div class="recon-data-item">
<div><code>runonload</code></div>
<div>Whether the query should be run and its results shown when the page loads. This is the default behaviour. If instead you want to wait for the user to interact, you can opt out by setting <code>runonload=false</code>. </div>
</div>
<div class="recon-data-item">
<div><code>debug</code></div>
<div>If set to "true", some additional info about your query and query results will be shown to help you debug any possible issues.</div>
</div>

=== Result formats and ResourceLoader modules ===
Result formats such as 'plainlist' (with template) and 'table' or 'broadtable' should be usable out of the box. To be fully functional, many more advanced result formats require one or multiple ResourceLoader modules to be loaded. Unfortunately, many result formats have not been written to support deferred DOM updates by third-party tools such as ours. Known exceptions are those that have up set up a listener (through the 'wikipage.content' hook) in their code:

* <code>leaflet</code>, part of the Maps extension
* <code>iiif-annotation-gallery</code>, part of the IIIF extension
* <code>iiif-canvas-viewer</code>, also part of the IIIF extension

Unfortunately, <code>gallery</code> is only partially supported, without any of the lightbox functionality.

If you are using 'template' as your 'output' mode and your template uses any result format, then add a comma-separated list of these formats to '''resultformats'''. For instance, if you add 'leaflet', this extension makes sure the required ResourceLoader module is available in time for the map to initialise.

=== Examples ===

;ask
<pre>{{#recon-faceted-search:
|profile=Recon:FacetedSearch/Recipes
|output=ask
|format=plainlist
|template=Show recipe
|link=none
|named args=true
|valuesep=;
|limit=10
|maxpages=5
}}</pre>

;template
<pre>{{#recon-faceted-search:
|profile=Recon:FacetedSearch/Recipes
|output=template
|template=RecipeSearch
|resultformats=leaflet
|maxpages=5
}}</pre>

;basic
<pre>{{#recon-faceted-search:
|output=basic
|profile=Recon:FacetedSearch/Recipes
|maxpages=5
}}</pre>

=== Initialisation options ===
==== Preset filters ====
There are two ways in which you can load the interface with preset filters.
# through <code>updateurl</code> : gets filters from the URL's query string or fragment.
# through <code>defaultfilters</code>: gets filters through the parser function.

Both options are explained in more detail above. If these options are used together, <code>updateurl</code> takes precedence over <code>defaultfilters</code>. If no URL filters are found, and only then, an additional check for the presence of default filters will be made before updating the query.

==== Run query on page load ====
When the page loads, the default behaviour is to run the query and show its results, with or without predefined filters. You can opt out by setting <code>runonload=false</code> in the parser function.

== Configuration profile ("FacetedSearchProfile") ==

Remember the mandatory <code>profile</code> parameter above? The parser function requires a configuration profile in JSON in which you have defined the base query that should always apply, the facets you want to use, a list of properties to print to the query result and maybe some sort options. This profile, like the reconciliation profile, is best saved as a wiki page in the <code>Recon</code> namespace. Try to be consistent when naming your profile pages (e.g. <code>Recon:FacetedSearch/Recipes</code>, <code>Recon:FacetedSearch/Events</code>, etc.). 

<blockquote>Tip: if you begin a new page whose title starts with 'Recon:FacetedSearch', you will get an appropriate boilerplate configuration, as opposed to the default content, which is boilerplate content for a reconciliation profile. This is just one way to help get you started.</blockquote>

=== General structure ===
What follows is the general structure of a profile. The inline comments below are just there to guide you and should never be included.

<pre>
{
	// General:
	"type": "FacetedSearchProfile",
	"source": "smw",
	"baseQuery": "...", // Base query that should always apply, e.g. [[Category:artists]] or [[Class::artist]]

	// Facets, more on which below:
	"facets": [
		// See 'Facet types' below
		{
			"name": "keyword",
			"smwproperty": "Has keyword",
			"label": "Keyword",
			"inputType": "text"
		},
		{
			"name": "occupation",
			"smwproperty": "Has occupation",
			"label": "Occupation",
			"inputType": "select",
			"profileid": "2342"
		},
		// etc.
	],

	// Printout 
	"printout": {
		"properties": [
			"#=Page",
			"Has occupation",
			"Display title of"
		]
	},

	// Sort options
	"sort": [
		{ "value": "", "label": "Pagename" },
		{ "value": "Creation date", "label": "Date created" },
		{ "value": "Modification date", "label": "Date modified" }
	]
}
</pre>

=== Define your facets ===
The following JSON keys are available for configuring a facet. Their usage will be explained in more detail below.

* '''inputType''' (mandatory) - either "select", "multiselect", "radio" or "text"
* '''label''' - the visible label associated with a facet
* '''name''' (mandatory) - unique name. It is essential that each facet is identifiable by a unique name.
* '''smwproperty''' - the property to be used in the query, or an inverse query, or a property chain
* '''subquery''' - optionally, a subquery to be used for 'smwproperty', without q tags and with @@@ as placeholder for the selected value. 
* '''smwpropertyMatch''' - if using inputType=text, set to 'exact' to make the query match exactly.
* Data source options, each of which will be explained below :
** '''profileid'''
** '''valuesFromProperty'''
** '''options'''
** '''mapOptions'''
* '''resultLimit''' - optionally, the maximum number of possible values ( default: 25) that can be shown in a facet if data is retrieved over the API. This can be useful, for instance, if you need to accommodate more items in a 'radio' button group.
* '''allowEmpty''' - whether to prepend an empty option (true by default). See info on radio buttons below.

==== Choose your input type ====

===== (1) input type 'text' =====
A text input is commonly used once at the top of all facets to perform partial matching on the title and other essential keywords.

;single-page restriction
Single-page restriction is assumed if you omit <code>smwproperty</code>.

<pre>
{
	"label": "Page name",
	"name": "Page name",
	"inputType": "text"
}
</pre>

;exact match
By default, this input type assumes the property value will be fed to a wildcard match when the query is run. If you strictly need an exact match instead, set "smwpropertyMatch" to "exact", as below.

<pre>
{
	"label": "Identifier",
	"name": "Identifier",
	"inputType": "text",
	"smwproperty": "Has identifier number",
	"smwpropertyMatch": "exact"
}
</pre>

===== (2) Dropdown input types: 'select' and 'multiselect' =====
* Use 'select' if users should be allowed to select single items only.
* Use 'multiselect' if they are allowed to select more than one.

Both types allow for the use of predefined lists as well as API-provided data sets.

===== (3) 'radio' =====

If users should be allowed to select single values only, you can also use a radio button group. It is commonly used when the number of possible values is relatively small and a direct listing is preferred to autocompletion. 

That said, many values are handled as follows :
* The result limit is 25 by default and can be manually set using <code>resultLimit</code>. 
* If the total number of results exceeds the result limit, you can click a link at the bottom of the list ("more") to fetch further options. At intervals equal to the result limit (which again, is customisable), this continues until there's nothing left to show.

The default behaviour is to add an empty option at the start of the list so that users can always clear their choice. You can opt out by setting <code>allowEmpty</code> (in the faceted search profile) to <code>false</code>.

==== Choose your data source ====
In order that a facet can offer any items for users to select, you can either use a dataset returned by the API or a pre-defined list of options :

;Fetching data from the API :
* To fetch '''entities''', use <code>profileid</code> and reference the page ID of the preferred reconciliation profile. This approach relies on the <code>recon-suggest-entity</code> module.
* To fetch '''property values''' (especially values with data type "Text"), use <code>valuesFromProperty</code> and point to a semantic property in <code>valuesFromProperty</code>. This approach relies on the <code>recon-suggest-propvalue</code> module.

;Fetching data from a list of options :
* Use <code>options</code> to define pairs of values and labels as selectable options.
* Use <code>mapOptions</code> to associate a selected value directly with a query condition.

See below for usage details.

===== (1) <code>profileid</code> =====
Point <code>profileid</code> to the page id of the reconciliation profile that you want to use for setting up autocomplete suggestions.

Example:

<pre>
{
	"label": "Genre",
	"smwproperty": "Has genre",
	"inputType": "select",
	"profileid": "238" // = page id of the reconciliation profile
}
</pre>

===== (2) <code>valuesFromProperty</code> =====
Using <code>valuesFromProperty</code>, you can point to a semantic property and have it return values from that property. This approach relies on the <code>recon-suggest-propvalue</code> module.

To users of Page Forms: this is similar to 'values from property'.

<pre>
{
	"label": "...",
	"name": "...",
	"inputType": "multiselect",
	"smwproperty": "Has tag",
	"valuesFromProperty": "Has tag"
}
</pre>

===== (3) <code>options</code> =====
This key lets you define a fixed list of options in the form of values and labels. For example:

<pre>
{
	"label": "",
	"name": "",
	"inputType": "select",
	"options": [
		{ "value": "", "label: "" },
		{ "value": "", "label: "" },
		{ "value": "", "label: "" }
	]
}
</pre>

===== (4) <code>mapOptions</code> =====
You can also directly associate options with part of a condition in an #ask query. Instead of <code>options</code>, use <code>mapOptions</code> with an array like the following, where <code>option</code> represents the label visible to users and <code>where</code> the associated query condition:

<pre>
{
	"label": "Century",
	"name": "Century",
	"inputType": "select",
	"mapOptions": [
		{
			"option": "Not defined",
			"where": "[[Has status::No date defined]]"
		},
		{
			"option": "17th century",
			"where": "[[Earliest possible date::<1699]] [[Latest possible date::>1600]]"
		},
		{
			"option": "18th century",
			"where": "[[Earliest possible date::<1799]] [[Latest possible date::>1700]]"
		}
	]
}
</pre>

==== Map facet data to query conditions ====
When a facet receives a value by user selection or typing, that value needs to be mapped to a sensible query condition. Multiple ways are available for achieving this:

;(1) with smwproperty
In most cases, you would probably use <code>smwproperty</code> to define the property for the selected values. Properties, inverse property statements and chained properties are supported, at least to the extent that Semantic MediaWiki itself sufficiently supports their usage.

<pre>
{
	"label": "Ingredient",
	"smwproperty": "Has ingredient",
	"inputType": "select",
	//...
}
</pre>

If "sugar" were selected, the query condition (part of the larger query argument) would become
<pre>[[Has ingredient::sugar]]</pre>

;(2) with smwproperty and subquery (advanced)

Sometimes your intended query condition may be more complex than simply having a selected value assigned to your 'smwproperty' (e.g. <code>MyProperty::propertyValue</code>. If what goes after the double colon should be a <strong>subquery</strong>, add it to <code>subquery</code> and make sure that you :
* Omit the q tags. The extension will add them for you.
* Write <code>@@@</code> where the selected value is expected to go. The extension will replace this variable.

Example:

<pre>
{
	"label": "Keyword",
	"name": "Keyword",
	"inputType": "select",
	"smwproperty": "-Belongs to",
	"subquery": "[[Category:People]] [[Has nationality::@@@]]",
}
</pre>

If 'Colombian' were selected, the query condition would become:
<pre>[[-Belongs to::<q>[[Category:People]] [[Has nationality::Colombian]]</q>]]</pre>

Just be aware that subqueries are known to be relatively expensive computationally and are probably best used sparingly.

;(3) with mapOptions

See above.

;(4) with smwpropertyMatch

See the section on the 'text' input type.

=== Define sort options ===

The interface comes with a widget in the upper right corner that lets users change the <code>sort</code> and <code>order</code> (asc/desc) of the query. For instance, if you want your users to be able to sort by pagename, date of page creation and date of latest revision, you could add something like the following to the profile :

<pre>
"sort": [
	{ "value": "", "label": "Pagename" },
	{ "value": "Creation date", "label": "Date created" },
	{ "value": "Modification date", "label": "Date modified" }
]
</pre>
